the lockdown measures that are in place
and the social distancing measures are
in place
mean that many of the planned events
have been only unable
to take place as originally envisaged
today is an important day
to pause and remember and 75 years ago
people poured into the streets of asgard
cities
to celebrate the end of that most
difficult conflict
our soldiers fought around the world
there were countless acts of bravery
450 550 000 british people sadly lost
their lives and it was a moment when our
whole country
pulled together as defra secretary
i would like to take this opportunity to
record the efforts of those who also
contributed
in a non-military way in particular our
farmers who stepped up to ensure that
the nation was fed
and the many women who responded to the
call
to join the women's land army in a
moment i'm going to give you an update
on our work to support
the vulnerable get access to food but
firstly let me give you an update
on the latest data from the cobra
coronavirus data file
i can report that through the
government's ongoing monitoring and
testing program
as of today one million six hundred and
thirty one thousand
five hundred and sixty one tests for
coronavirus have now been carried out in
the uk
including and 97 nine thousand twenty
nine tests carried out
yesterday two hundred and eleven
thousand
three hundred and sixty four people have
tested positive
and that's an increase of four thousand
six hundred and forty nine cases since
yesterday
eleven thousand seven hundred and eighty
eight people
are currently in hospital with the
coronavirus down from twelve thousand
six hundred and eighty eight the
previous day
and sadly of those tested positive for
coronavirus
across all settings 31 241
have now died that's an increase of 626
fatalities
since yesterday this new figure includes
deaths
in all settings not just in hospitals
and we express our deepest condolences
to the families and friends
of these victims
turning now to our work to help the
vulnerable get access to food
firstly for the so-called shielded
cohort that's those who are
clinically vulnerable over a million
food parcels have now been delivered
to these households and in addition all
of those on the shielded cohort
have been added to a list giving them
priority access
to supermarket delivery slots so far
around 400 000 people
have been offered priority delivery
slots by supermarkets
and around 1 million orders have been
placed
ensuring that people can shop normally
and purchase the goods that they want to
buy there is of course a
wider vulnerable group those perhaps you
have disabilities
who are elderly and perhaps don't have
neighbors or
relatives close by to help them or
indeed those with other conditions
that don't put them in the clinically
shielded group
but nevertheless make them vulnerable
and we've been working with
local authorities and some of the
leading charities such as age uk
to put together a package of support to
help these people get access
to food and many local authorities and
charities
have also been accessing the good
samaritan app
as part of the nhs responder volunteer
program
and so far 79 000 shopping runs
have been carried out by volunteers
engaged
in that program in addition
we are continuing to work with
supermarkets to make available
additional priority slots for those in
this
group but we also recognize
that the economic impacts of coronavirus
means that vulnerability is not just
about
physical access to food for some there
is also
financial vulnerability so today
we are announcing a new 16 million pound
fund
to support frontline food charities
the fund will be used by fair share and
rap
to continue and support and increase the
food redistribution work
that they already do and will
significantly expand
their sourcing capacity they will be
delivering
food to around 5 000 frontline charities
and these include refuges homeless
shelters
and rehabilitation centers
finally i'm conscious that there is a
great deal of speculation
about what the prime minister might say
on sunday
when he outlines a road map for the
future
and how we will evolve the current
restrictions
the prime minister will outline any
changes to the guidance on sunday
but in the meantime in spite of the
sunny bank holiday
it is vitally important that we continue
to abide
by the current restrictions stay at home
to protect the nhs
and save lives thank you
thank you secretary of state um i'd like
to start by paying tribute
on ve day to every member of the armed
forces and in particular the many
doctors nurses and other clinicians who
serve in our military
the nhs was founded as part of the
reconstruction of our country
after the second world war and since it
has grown into the most trusted
organization
in the country along with our armed
forces and other public service
organizations the nhs is a rock for
people
in times of uncertainty and as we've all
found our way through this global
pandemic
i'm proud of the partnership that the
nhs and our armed forces have forged
to give people the help that they need
in constructing the nightingales
our extra capacity to back up existing
intensive care services
the army and the nhs has worked
hand-in-hand
and achieved something quite
extraordinary i don't know my colleagues
working on the front line of the nhs
have been extremely grateful
for all the help that the military have
offered government in the distribute
distribution of protective equipment
so today as we celebrate the service and
dedication of our armed forces personnel
i want to remind those serving in the
military
that the nhs repays your service with
tailored care
whether that's physical rehabilitation
or specialist mental health care
in particular to help veterans to make
the transition into civilian life
while a growing number of veterans have
been referred for help year on year
latest data indicates a drop in the
number of people reaching out to
specialist services in april
so for any military families watching
today remember that if you need medical
help
as is the same for anybody who needs
help particularly emergency help then
please come to us
in the nhs i'd now like to move
to the daily presentation of data slides
and the first slide is a reminder that i
won't go through in detail today because
you have seen it
many times before of the five tests that
the government
has set for adjusting the lockdown
in the next slide we have a slide as
is usual looking at how the public
have been complying with the social
distancing instructions that we've all
been given
this is data from google and it shows a
seven-day
rolling average of the mobility of the
public in various places and you will
see
when it comes to transport and
retail and recreation and the workplace
there has been a dramatic reduction
since the social distancing
measures were introduced a little bit of
an uptick in workplaces but i would
remind you that people
are clearly working in some workplaces
although many many
are working from home uh one other thing
to point out in parks you will see that
there's a bit of variation in use of
parks
uh which i'm sure is consistent
with sunny weather and people going out
a little bit more
in the next slide we look at the daily
tests you've heard
the data for us yesterday and you will
see that there has been
uh an increase in the number of tests at
the end of april and
uh into may in the next slide
you will see how that testing capacity
is reflected
in new cases uh you will see a steady
number of new cases being reported
and these these remember are those uh
individuals who test positive
in the testing program uh but as the cap
capacity has increased that number has
not increased uh
dramatically reflecting that the social
distancing measures
are being complied with they're working
and overall
the spread of this virus is reducing in
the community in the next slide we show
how that translates
into those that unfortunately
have to receive hospital care and again
remember that for the majority
of people over 80 percent this is a mild
illness a
flu-like illness that you can stay at
home with
but for some it does require hospital
admission and you will see that hospital
admissions uh
peaked and plateaued around the middle
of april
and since they have been falling most
obviously in london
where the number of cases was highest
but also
maybe a little bit more slowly but
certainly in other parts of the uk
and there has now been quite a decrease
in the number
of people in hospital with covid19
and then for the sickest patients in the
next slide you can see the usage of
critical care beds
for patients who have covid19 again a
minority
but these are the sickest patients who
require the most intensive care
this shows the proportion of beds and
you can see that that proportion has
again been falling
since the middle of april and he's now
down at below a third
and the absolute numbers of patients in
critical care beds with covet 19
is similarly falling and then finally uh
we show data on debts and sadly uh
you will i've just heard of uh another
626 debts
uh in all settings uh today but you can
also see
from this slide that when looking at the
seven day rolling average which
means that we can correct for changes
from day to day
there again is a decline in overall
debts
that again has been occurring from the
middle to
end of april and then last is the
international comparison
uh this shows the uk all settings now
uh with a lag on it um uh well sorry not
with the lag on it but uk all settings
uh set from uh a particular start point
for all countries
and again the usual uh caveats uh that
we give
that comparisons between different uh
countries uh is difficult
uh and it will only be excess mortality
all-cause mortality over a period of
time
of the pandemic uh that will be the uh
the uh
probably the best way uh to make this
sort of comparison thank you
thank you uh stephen and we'll now um
turn to questions starting with our
first member of the public with a
question and that's alex from felix stew
what is happening with brexit in the
coven 19 lockdown has it been put on
hold or are you still going ahead with
it
thank you very much alex we're still
going ahead with it and brexit in fact
is something that has
already happened we left the european
union at the end of january
we have a transition period that ends at
the end of this year
and we will still be ending that
transition period on time as planned
and we are still doing whatever planning
is necessary uh to ensure that after
that transition period
we can trade normally and function
normally as a country
turning now to heidi from romford
and heidi's question is how will the
contact app work properly
when a lot of the older generation do
not have smartphones
they are the ones that need to know who
has covered 19 the most
but they won't know and will still be in
danger
well heidi i will uh start by trying to
answer that and um
stephen might also come in with some
additional points
um the important thing about the
new tracing app that we are working on
is
is quite critical as we start to evolve
the restrictions we have
and move from a complete lockdown of the
country to one where
we enable people to move around and
perhaps to travel to work
as we get to that point having that
accurate data locally of if there is an
outbreak and an infection and somebody
tests positive being able to have
anybody who's been in close contact with
them to self-isolate
is very important the work that we've
done
suggests that if you got around 60 of
the population
on this app then it would become highly
effective but even at lower rates than
that it would be effective
we do recognize that some elderly people
may not have
a mobile phone and may not have an app
but also
many will have family who'd be able to
support them to
get such an app and of course um some of
those particularly the
shielded group may indeed continue to
stay at home for longer periods of times
and
protect themselves stephen is there
anything yeah it's a
very good question so so yes it is true
that um that
some of uh older generations do not have
smartphones
although it's also true that many do and
i know from my experience uh in
healthcare
not to underestimate the benefits that
technology such as smartphones
can bring to the older generation and
and many of the older generation do
indeed use this uh technology
uh and of course the older generation
are not the only uh people in society
who may not have uh smartphones so
it's absolutely correct uh that the app
will not be the only way
uh in which we will be able to monitor
and uh
track down people or track down contacts
of people who
have coronavirus going forward it will
be an important part but it will not be
the
only part thank you
uh stephen and the um the next question
we've got is ben wright from the bbc
go ahead ben thank you secretary of
state you don't want to preempt
the prime minister but today the welsh
government has announced some modest
changes to their lockdown
rules before the prime minister speaks
on sunday can we expect those measures
to be mirrored
in england and what can you as the uk
government do to ensure the public
receive
a very clear message
well look ben our very clear message
today is that even though it's going to
be a sunny bank holiday it is absolutely
essential that people
abide by the current restrictions and
stay at home
and don't uh succumb to the temptation
to
uh to go out and about and we will have
to wait
for what the prime minister has to say
on sunday
but i think what i can say is this he's
going to set out effectively a
road map of how we can evolve the
current restrictions we have
this complete lockdown at the moment to
something where
certain activities may become possible
in the short term in the near term and
other things might take
much longer we have to be realistic that
there isn't going to be
any dramatic overnight change we will be
very very cautious
as we loosen the restrictions we have as
the data that we're outlining on a daily
basis shows
we are not out of the woods there are
still major challenges with this virus
we will be living with this virus for
some time to come
and it's therefore important to avoid
that second peak that could overwhelm
our nhs
that we exit and evolve these
restrictions
very very carefully i would also say
this it's uh
we work very closely with all of the
devolved administrations they attend the
cobra meetings when some of these
matters are discussed
and as far as possible while each
duval's administration
has obviously got the freedom to have
slightly different approaches as far as
possible we are all working together
to try to have a broadly similar uk
approach
did you want to come back on april just
uh yesterday's briefing
we were promised more data on how the r8
varies
across the country nationally and
regionally when are we going to see that
data
and is it the case that the r8 has to be
universally low across all four nations
before
we can expect to see a significant
lifting of the lockdown
i might ask stephen whether he can pick
up on that yeah so paul i can't give you
the
the data uh by region um i think uh what
has been said at the r is
somewhere between 0.5 and 0.9 um
it undoubtedly will vary from place to
place and it will vary over time from
place to place
the important thing is that as a whole
that it stays below one
and uh the five tests that were in the
original
the initial slide i showed i went
through them quickly but you will know
what they are
and you've just just heard that one of
them is to ensure that
we don't risk a second peak and we don't
risk putting
uh pressure on our health service that
overwhelms it and to do that it's
it is a requirement to make sure that r
is below one and cases uh the number of
uh
new cases in the community is not rising
so
it will vary across geographies it will
vary from time to time but the important
thing
is to keep it below one okay
thank you very much ben and we'll now
turn to kyle zinnen from itv
thank you secretary of state are you
disappointed
given the news from the welsh first
minister today
that the four nations don't look like
they will be taking
exactly the same approach to the
handling
of this virus
well look the devolved administrations
do um
you know obviously have competence over
some of these issues some of these
measures and from the beginning
some of them have done slightly
different things to
england but generally speaking we've
we've taken similar approaches and we've
been in steps
even though there have been some slight
differences um
i don't think we need to get too worked
up about
timings of different announcements
scotland made some comments
obviously last week wales has today the
prime minister will be
setting out his approach and that road
map and how we
intend to evolve these restrictions on
sunday
can i ask if the restrictions are going
to
evolve and that suggests that in some
ways
something might be eased how are you
going to monitor
whether or not you've been able to do
that
without risking a resurgence of the
virus
without significantly more testing than
you're currently able to do
well i think the first thing i must
stress is that any
you know evolution of the current
restrictions will be done with the
utmost of caution
there isn't going to be dramatic change
in the short term
we will be cautiously making some
changes where we think
that where we think those can be
considered and the prime minister will
be setting out
you know a timetable for other changes
as well
in terms of how we monitor things we do
now have quite a
substantial surveillance program that's
being run by
ons where we are doing sample data
testing people to get an understanding
of the
prevalence of this disease and you know
further work like that particularly on a
regional basis will help us to
understand
trends in the disease and obviously we
also have the
daily data that we've been publishing
now
regularly from our coronavirus
file which actually shows some of the
key indicators in terms of new
infections so we will
be monitoring this very very closely as
any changes are made
i don't know stephen if you want to add
so so in monitoring infectious diseases
in the community including in epidemics
it's really important to have a range of
different things that you measure
as part of an overall surveillance
system and in fact the data that is
presented every day
in this slides uh in the slides that
i've shown you earlier
uh that data is is part of that
surveillance system so
admissions into hospital uh deaths
unfortunately as part of that
surveillance system
positive uh test cases is part of that
system and each winter during uh
the flu season in fact we run
surveillance public health england run
surveillance
mechanisms that look at presentation of
symptoms of flu-like symptoms to
general practice through to the number
of people testing positive for influenza
so there are well-established
surveillance processes
and i think the key going forward will
be to ensure that we have a similar
surveillance system
for covid but it is likely to include
not only the data that you are
familiar with but other data as it as it
becomes available so it won't be
just one thing it will be a range of uh
indicators
thank you um moving on now to liz bates
from channel 4.
liz yes thank you um so channel 4 news
revealed last night
that millions of out-of-date ppe
products were
distributed to frontline workers public
health england
say they were tested and that they were
found to be safe but that they won't
release the results
of those tests so can you tell us now
why
those test results won't be released
stephen can i uh so so my understanding
uh
um as the government and ph and releases
um
uh the um ppe
um equipment uh and delivers it to
uh hospitals in other settings is uh
that any
uh items that have gone past their
original
uh date of expiry are retested to ensure
that they
still keep the or are still at the right
standards and they would not be
distributed
unless they had been retested to uh
to meet those standards
okay does that excite you so they would
have been retailed that's okay
yes okay uh just um we've been speaking
to people in care homes today
still desperate for testing particularly
for their staff
um they're being directed to a hotline
if you call it says
sorry there's no tests available today
call back tomorrow
um why can they still not get the tests
that they need
well look i think the reality is um with
the testing we've now got around 90
different mobile test centers and
another
50 or so drive through right around the
country it's inevitable
uh when you're trying to use up all of
that capacity we've got over 100
000 test capacity now it's it's
inevitable that they're
well in some regions perhaps not be
sufficient numbers in some days
and there will be daily fluctuations so
it's possibly the case that they can't
get an immediate test
on that day but they should be able to
get one quickly because we do now have
the capacity and today
we've got the figures announced it shows
we've tested
97 000 people um and that includes um
since we've been doing the testing tens
of thousands of staff
working in care homes and indeed
residents as well
um next we have laura hughes from the ft
hi just to follow up on that testing
question i know the numbers have just
gone up over the last 24 hours but it's
actually the sixth day
that we're still not testing at full
capacity
why is that and why are we seeing
reports of people
saying that it's taking actually
sometimes up to 10 days
for them to get their results back
having had a test
well i think it's probably for the
reasons that i
uh outlined and i may ask steven to come
in on this
this point in a moment but if you have
as we do
50 different sites that are offering
these drive-through tests you will get
regional variances you'll have some days
where
there are surplus tests and people
haven't come forward to take them in
some areas
and you'll have other areas where they
don't have quite enough capacity for
that
local demand in that particular local
area you're going to get those
day-to-day fluctuations i think the
important thing is we set this
target to get a hundred thousand tests
and uh we have that capacity
the prime minister's announced in the
last week that we're going to
ramp that up further to 200 000
test capacity per day that's going to be
you know important as we start to
develop
some of our track and trace proposals
testing will be
an important element of part of that
the important thing is to have those
ambitious targets that you're working to
to just continually build the capacity
but you will of course get daily
fluctuations in availability in any
given local area
would you like to does that answer your
question
if i could ask you a separate question
would you like to see
more fast food outlets like mcdonald's
start to reopen
were you disappointed that a number of
fast food retailers actually closed do
you feel like they could have stayed
open
safely and if you do want to encourage
them to open up again
what are you doing to ensure they feel
that they can do that safely
well i have had a number of discussions
with some of the
food to go outlets companies such as
mcdonald's and
kfc and costa coffee and so on
um it is the case that when we
originally
did the lockdown we were quite explicit
that it didn't cover
take away food um and while clearly
restaurants and pubs had to close
we were quite keen to keep that capacity
to be able to do takeaway food for
people and that was
clear in the guidance i think there were
a number of reasons why
these companies took a decision uh
themselves of their own volition to
close firstly football in the town
centers was obviously
down so where they had branches in town
centers
they found that they they couldn't
really make them viable they had
issues with anxiety among some of their
staff and i think also
a sense that given the strength of the
overarching message
that people should stay at home um they
felt there was maybe a sense that it
wasn't socially acceptable to stay open
even though
the government hadn't explicitly
mandated their closure
a number of them have in the last two
weeks started to
consider reopening um pretty monge has
opened some of its branches
uh mcdonald's are planning to open a
small number
of uh drive-through venues on a
on a pilot basis uh and also
kfc have also on again on a pilot basis
opened
some of their branches but predominantly
for
drive-through and i think our view is
that
probably a mcdonald's drive-through is
made for the social distancing uh
situation that we are in in that people
do not leave their car
uh they place their order and somebody
passes a bag of food to them at the end
through a kiosk
so um i think it is quite possible for
these venues to
reopen and reopen safely we never
mandated that they should close we've
learned a lot from
supermarkets and other food outlets
about
how you can do social distancing and do
it well and
i think some of those food-to-go
businesses will probably be seeking to
learn lessons from what
supermarkets have done as they consider
tentatively reopening and i think all of
them will do
this in a cautious way just as any
further evolution in government policy
will be cautious
thank you um we now have uh sean linton
from the independent
good afternoon um a question to you
first secretary of state the
sticking with testing the president of
the institute
of biomedical science has told the
independent today that the 200
000 test capacity target has not
actually been helpful
and made it harder for nhs labs to focus
testing on
the right groups of people um and the
head of nhs providers said earlier this
week that there were problems with key
workers
getting tests and needing to get back to
work and he also called for a more
considered strategy do you accept that
the focus on
setting round number targets has not
actually been helpful
to people in the system and can you say
a bit more about perhaps the strategy
that we will need in a more considered
testing strategy going forward as we
move into test trace
and isolate and to mr powis
uh new figures yesterday showed 600
more care homes have reported outbreaks
of covid19
in a single week the total are now more
than 5 000. so the care sector
is clearly the epicenter of the
infection can you tell us how high
the rate of infection in care homes is
at the moment and why
we're still sending positive patients
into care homes and what specific steps
is the nhs taking to support the sector
to look after people
infected with kobit 19 well on the
first point on testing i don't think i
do accept that i think it is
important and helpful to have targets
that you're moving towards in order to
expand that capacity uh in short order
which is what we've been
trying to do that's why we had that
ambitious target to get to a hundred
thousand
and again to get to 200 000 by the end
of this month
i don't really see any reason why those
people and the
army have been heavily involved in the
logistics of setting up some of these uh
centers
why the planning to get that additional
capacity both the infrastructure to
have additional drive-through testing
centers or indeed additional mobile
centers and bringing on-stream
additional laboratory capacity i don't
really understand at all why that would
distract
from those that are delivering the
current test capacity and they
can continue to do so the planning for
an expansion is done by an entirely
different set of people and i think the
reason why
it is important to have quite an
ambitious target to
expand this test capacity further is as
we
evolve this policy and as we start to
roll out
things such as our track and trace
approach
testing will become quite an important
feature of that in that if somebody
through the track and trace app reports
symptoms and starts to self-isolate
they will also be referred for a test so
if we want to
start to roll out some of these uh smart
approaches
um well having that test capacity will
be
quite important stephen yes so so
good afternoon shawn so of course it's
really important that we do get on top
of outbreaks
in care homes as you've suggested and
indeed the nhs has been working
increasingly closely with colleagues
in social care to provide our support so
we are testing
patients uh before they are discharged
into care homes but i think it's
important also to
uh to to note that it's a relatively
small
number of discharges from hospitals that
actually are directly uh
into care homes uh somewhere in the
region of around 1 in
20 going into care homes for the first
time
we've also done some preliminary work on
whether there's any correlation between
areas of outbreaks and
discharges and we can't see a
correlation between
discharges and outbreaks
it is right though that we as i said
that we put as much support as we can
possibly
do into into care homes so that includes
support through primary care and general
practice but it also
includes support around infection
prevention and control and as
you know hospitals have got very
established
mechanisms for infection and prevention
and control through
directors of infection prevention
control typically the
chief nurse of hospitals and
they are lending their expertise to
colleagues
in the care sector with an offer to help
in training
and to ensure that the standards of
infection control that we are well used
to in hospitals
uh is translated as much as possible to
assist
with infection control in care homes so
you're absolutely right to point out
that the nhs
plays a part in supporting colleagues uh
in social care
and also public health because of course
directors of public health and local
authorities and local authorities are
really key partners as well
in managing outbreaks and preventing
outbreaks and care homes
sure do you have a doubt sweaty if i can
just follow up a question there get back
to steve if i may
sticking with vulnerable groups we've
reported today
on new deaths in mental health units
published by
the cqc um why has nhs england
not published the data it receives on a
weekly basis about the deaths of people
from learning disability and autism from
covert 19.
parliament's joint committee on human
rights a slew of charities and many
parents and families are worried about
this lack of transparency
from nhs england especially in what is a
traditionally marginalized vulnerable
group
will you commit nhs england to
publishing that data
and what can you say to reassure
families and loved ones
so you know sean uh that people with
learning disabilities and autism
and actually wider mental health
problems
um are really key to nhs england's work
and you know from the long term plan
that we published at the start of last
year
uh just quite the focus that we are
placing
on those groups of individuals it's
really important that they get the
appropriate care the right care and have
parity of care
with uh with everybody else so so we
we're not losing that focus
in terms of patients with uh mental
health
uh who are unfortunately dying with uh
covid19
many of those have been transferred uh
from mental health facilities into
uh acute uh hospitals it is a small
number but
they have are being transferred uh and
yes i can commit that we will publish
that data
uh we've been looking at how we can do
that as part of our
uh you know we publish deaths daily uh
we're looking at how we can report on
on those groups uh and i'll commit that
that from next week we will be
publishing data uh
on learning disabilities autism and
mental health patients who have died in
acute hospitals and we'll do that on
ongoing basis
thank you very much sean and then
finally we have stephen pollard
from the jewish chronicle hi um
many people rely on charities for social
care
and with a huge rise in job losses those
charities which provide
administrative support and claim it it
would help with benefits and so on
um the demand for them has soared at the
very time when their funding has
basically
stopped and the one thing you hear
consistently from charities
is that the government's package while
welcome is is nothing like big enough
given that a lot of these charities are
providing services that either wouldn't
exist
or would cost the taxpayer a fortune if
the taxpayer was to
provide them is there any prospect of
further funding for
charities being considered
well steven as uh as you alluded to we
we have
got that uh fund that was announced the
750 million pound
fund to support a range of charities in
a wide range of areas
supporting people suffering from the
coronavirus
indeed the 16 million pound package that
i've announced
today is being drawn as part of that
750 million pound funding package
there have been many many successful
bids into that
covering all of the areas uh that you've
mentioned also some of the food
charities
and many more besides including packages
to support for instance
smaller zoos and some of the other
venues that have been
affected so it's been quite a broad
package
i think quite a supportive package these
are extraordinary times
but i think that that uh 750 million
pounds fund
is very welcome and has helped a lot of
charities uh with the additional burdens
that they have as a result of the
coronavirus
are there any other points you wanted to
make as well yeah just
just one um one of the most
heartbreaking things for many people
who've
lost a loved one to coronavirus um is
the restriction on
mourners at funerals understandable
restrictions but no less heartbreaking
for that
i just wondered if there's any prospect
in the relaxation of the easing of some
of the
rules that the prime minister will
announce if if mourners
may be allowed close you know family
mourners may be allowed to attend
funerals
well i completely understand the point
you're making and um
this is a very sensitive issue and i
also know that because
gatherings at places of worship have
also been stopped for
lots of people from many different
religions that has also
affected them as well but it is funerals
i think that um
that are the hardest here we have
allowed funerals to continue
for um immediate family members close
family members
um but i appreciate that that's not um
uh you know not not much hope for for
for wider family who would also like to
uh attend this is an area that we will
be uh looking at closely
obviously i can't uh prejudge uh what
the prime minister might say
on sunday but i can reassure you that
we were very very conscious that this is
an incredibly sensitive
matter that people want the opportunity
to
pay their last respects obviously we
have to be cautious
because we have to be very careful about
large social gatherings
but it is something that we are giving
consideration to
right thank you uh very much um that's
the end of the questions that we've got
uh today
i would also again as i've done before
just like to
conclude by recording my thanks to all
of those working in the food industry
from
supermarkets and food manufacturers
right through to farmers
there's really been quite an
extraordinary effort over the
last couple of months to ensure that we
keep food
on our supermarket shelves but thank you
all very much
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news